DOC: Add  governance document draft (#163)
pyfar/gallery: docs/contribute/general/governance.md

### Responsibilities

The Steering Council is responsible for:

- **Setting the overall scope and long-term vision** and roadmap of the pyfar ecosystem
- Accepting or rejecting **Enhancement Proposals (DEPs)** that have project-wide or cross-package implications
- **Governance decisions** — changing rules, roles, processes, or the Code of Conduct
- **Representing the project** externally (e.g., to academic partners and funding bodies)
- **Resolving conflicts** that cannot be settled among Maintainers through discussion or informal voting
- Accepting new maintainers into the project and ensuring that a sufficient number of maintainers are available per project

The Steering Council does not replace Maintainers on daily technical decisions within a single package. Routine pull request merges, deprecations with clear migration paths, and package-level technical direction remain within the authority of each package's Maintainers.

### What Reaches the Steering Council

In practice, most decisions in the pyfar project will be resolved by Maintainers via lazy consensus or informal vote.

> **The committee is involved when:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**The council is involved when:**
```

> - A DEP has **cross-package or project-wide impact** — for example, introducing a new shared data structure, changing a convention adopted by all packages, or deprecating functionality that other packages depend on

Reviewer: > changing a convention adopted by all packages

How should we treat the template package in this context? It has been used in the past to establish such conventions.

> - A DEP proposes a **large new feature or new package** — meaning functionality that significantly expands a package or the project, requires substantial development effort, or has broad implications for the user-facing API

Reviewer: > A DEP proposes a **large new feature or new package**

Not sure about this point, since we have not fully defined DEPs yet. Is there any DEP that does **not** need to be discussed by the council? If not, I would suggest writing here that **every DEP** needs approval by the council. The explanations for what a DEP does can then be implemented by linking to DEP0.

- A question of **removing or significantly altering** long-standing functionality that many users rely on

> - A DEP proposes a **governance change** — modifying roles, voting rules, the DEP process, or the Code of Conduct

Reviewer: See comment above. If we agree that every DEP needs approcal by the council, this is point is just and obsolete explanation of what DEPs are for.

- Maintainers across packages **cannot reach consensus** after discussion
- A decision has legal, financial, or external relations implications

> ### Composition

Reviewer: Should we add a point, what is required to change the rules for this composition? A DEP?

- **Size:** A minimum of **4** and a maximum of **5** members. Keeping the committee small ensures it remains functional and decisive. At least 4 members are required to participate in a vote.
- **Eligibility:** Any person with at least **1 - 2 years of active pyfar contribution** — meaning regular commits, reviews, infrastructure work, community building and support, or active participation in weekly meetings — and who expresses willingness to remain in the role for **at least one year**.
- **Overlap with Maintainers:** Steering Council members will in most cases also hold a Maintainer role in one or more packages. The committee is a subset of the most experienced and engaged contributors, not a separate group.

#### Council Chair

The council appoints a council chair. The chair's responsibilities are

- Organizing and preparing Steering Council meetings
- Ensuring the composition of the Steering Council stays current

> ### Selection Process

Reviewer: We should add a point at which point in time the selections happen and who is deciding that. Is it a special meeting, how is it announced?

1. Nomination are accepted via self-nomination and peer nomination.
2. All current **actively involved Maintainers/Developers across all packages** are eligible to vote — not only the existing committee members.
3. Informal voting proceeds by simple majority; in case of a tie, a second round is held
4. Candidates may vote for themselves; this is considered a legitimate expression of willingness to serve
5. Elected members are announced to the full pyfar community

### Stepping Down & Emeritus Status

> Members who step down from the Steering Council are recognized with **emeritus status**, acknowledging their past contributions. Emeritus members may attend meetings and contribute to discussions but do not hold voting rights.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Members who step down from the Steering Council are recognized with **emeritus status**, acknowledging their past contributions. Emeritus members may attend meetings and contribute to discussions but do not hold the rights of an active council member.
```
To remove confusion with the voting as part of the selection process

### Expected Conduct

> Steering Council members are expected to participate in votes, particularly on major DEPs and governance decisions. If a member becomes inactive in the project for a period of 6 months, they will be considered for removal from the Council. Before removal, inactive Member will be approached to see if they plan on returning to active participation. If not, they will be removed immediately upon a Council vote.

Reviewer: I would suggest to add giving them the option to step down as an alternative to simply removing them, such that they reach the emeritus status.

> Sustained absence from votes without notice may prompt a discussion about whether a member wishes to continue in the role.

Reviewer: Can you clarify what you mean with this point? Present in the council meeting but not voting, or not being present in the council meetings?
